Task: Bird Species Recognition
Background:
Bird species recognition with data mining algorithms is a challenging issue. Naturally, birds present in various scenarios appear in different sizes, shapes, colors, and angles from human perspective. Besides, the images present strong variations to identify the bird species more than audio classification. Also, human ability to recognize the birds through the images is limited.
Recently, there has been an increasing interest to develop deep learning based prediction models for bird species recognition due to their powerful feature representation capability. Briefly, deep learning models automatically learn feature descriptors from bird images and use them to train classifiers that can distinguish between different bird species. Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011 is a public bird species recognition dataset and widely used for the development of bird species recognition models. More details of the dataset can be accessed from http://www.vision.caltech.edu/visipedia/CUB-200-2011.html. Some example images of this dataset are shown below.
The feature descriptors of Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011 dataset produced with a deep learning model (ResNet-18 trained on ImageNet dataset) has been provided to you with this instruction as the “birds-species-recognition.zip’ file. By unzipping this file, you shall find the following two files:
1) “training.csv” with 5994 feature descriptors extracted using images from training split of Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011 dataset. You should use these descriptors for training.
2) “testing.csv” with 5794 feature descriptors extracted using images from testing split of Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011 dataset. You should use these descriptors for test.
3) Both files has the following data format: image_name<>class_name<>feature_descriptor. There are 200 image classes.
The goal of this task is to train classification models for bird species recognition using provided feature descriptors from Caltech-UCSD Birds-200-2011 dataset.
